I'm no offense thanks for tuning in to
inside Yale athletics sponsored by Under
Armour we start with the story on track
and cross-country runner James randon he
didn't exactly blow the coaches away
when they were recruiting him out of
high school but he's done exactly that
since taking the track for the bulldog
james r and ins list of accomplishments
on the track is as long as a Russian
novel among them to Yale track records
first Bulldog to break the four-minute
mile 2015 Ivy League champ in the 1500
2016 Ivy League champion cross country
2017 Ivy League Indoor 3k champ and a
first-team all-american first Bulldogs
do that since 1991 yeah he's got a few
he's got a few accomplishments and boy
is coach Paul Harkin's gladdy recruited
a fat is Harkins was only lukewarm on
Brandon who is firm who paid him but
attended a boarding school in New
Hampshire I was kind of an unknown kind
of quantity cuz like people I would say
I've really fast times on cross country
by Brenham on courses no one really
understood and they didn't know if they
were short or they didn't know I like
what the competition was like and if I
beat the competition by like a minute
what that really meant it was like yeah
you were kind of hesitant on me during
the recruiting process I was like well
you're small school guy I didn't know
you program that well and you had some
decent times but not a ton of huge times
even throughout high school just not
being able to really compete in like a
state championship like most high school
runners are able to or or kind of a New
England championship I don't I felt like
I had to prove that like you know that I
could compete on the highest level and
that's exactly what he's done
after clocking in right at 4 minutes in
the mile races twice
randon broke the magical milestone at a
race last year in Boston his time under
359 there's nothing quite like getting a
break through race and beating the the
kind of mark you went in and just having
the history history behind like the
four-minute mile just made that like all
the sweeter I'll remember that the rest
of my life to have it be the first one
to do it for your school for a track
program that goes back to 1872 is I
think a pretty big deal but Harkin says
an even bigger accomplishment was
winning the Ivy League championship in
the 1500 and then going on to Nationals
where he finished among the top eight in
the country securing first-team
all-america status he loves to run who
loves Iran he loves to win and he's not
afraid to set high and lofty goals and
when he does that he's he's willing to
work with me to put the plan in place to
to go achieve those so what next for
randon after he finishes his track
career at Yale according to his coach
he's good enough to pursue a spot on the
US Olympic team it will require him to
earn sponsorships and a spot on a
respected running club I think it's
something that like every runner dreams
about right it's like when you get into
kind of it's in some ways a bit of a
niche sport you think like well what's
the highest level I can get to someone
might think of like in basketball the
NBA but as a runner you always think oh
that be like it's my dream to go get the
Olympics I'd certainly say that I've
always dreamed about it but to think
that I could reasonably put my life
towards it is definitely not something I
mean I frankly I thought was possible
from the high school runner at a small
school to a freshman proving himself at
a nationally respected program and now
to one of college's most elite runners
randon has always known reaching goals
and dreams isn't easy but as his coach
says he's never shied away from that
hard work you know you can always say
you can do something but to actually do
it is always hard